Daniel Mercier, due to my accent you will understand that I'm Quebecois
I was athletic trainer in Canada
I had to wonder about several things
because athletic is different than ski mountaineering
Even if the training principles are similar
even if the first questions are identical
the answer could be really different
First we had to evaluate the ski mountaineering activity in a simple value expressed in W/Kg
So I developed a method to know her power
by considering the gradient of the uphill, her speed, the load and the weight on her foots
Qualities of Laetitia ?
She has got a lot !
The first one is her willpower and motivation when it's useful
Physicaly, from her heredity and the training
she has fantastic energetic quality and stamina
As she is lightweight is perfect during the uphill
and to ski down she was alpine-skier
I start my specific training for my 2013 ski season by the middle of October
On the Stelvio glacier
So I went to Italy to ski
Before the first races it's difficult to really know our grade
The first test to evaluate my fitness was the French Championships
I had good feelings and to my mind it's the most important
Compared to the other my times was pretty good
so it corroborates my feelings
My first international race was the 12th January
Good feelings was still there and good results also, I win the the two races
Today we are on the individual of the World Cup, at Marecottes, Swiss
Nice course, I won this stage ahead Mireia Miro, Spain
Gloriana started quickly so I followed her
Then I hadn't waited to lead the race and distance my pursuers
It was a nice race, really pleasant with an interesting route
During the competition it's really hard, this sport is really difficult
So everyone will doing its best and will run to win, definitely !
But once the finish line passed we are all friend
we share really pleasant and convivial times together
I really appreciate this sharing spirit between athletes
it's nice to exchange with new athletes, sometimes younger and still learning
So I like help them and share our experience too
Thanks to the staff, it's not so easy to manage a race like this
So if tonight we welcome nearly 200 racers it's thanks to all of you
I hope you appreciate, you will be back next year and we will live the same good party
Thanks to all of you, have a safe trip and enjoy this new season !